=head1 NAME

netsukuku.conf - Netsukuku daemon configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

/etc/netsukuku/netsukuku.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntkd> loads its options from the command line and from B<netsukuku.conf>.
The options that are changed infrequently resides in the configuration file.
The B<netsukuku.conf> file is typically installed at /etc/netsukuku/netsukuku.conf.

The comments starts with a '#'.
If an option is commented, B<ntkd> will use its default value.

The character '=' is used to assign a value to an option.

All the options will be overridden by their command line equivalent.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 RESTRICTED MODE

=over

=item B<ntk_restricted_mode> = I<bool>

When set to 1, NetsukukuD will be started in restricted mode to be compatible
with Internet. In the restricted mode, only IPs of the largest private subnet,
i.e. 10.x.x.x are chosen.

Default: 0

=item B<ntk_restricted_class> = I<bool>

When set to 1 the IPs will be chosen from the 172.16.0.0-172.31.255.255 range
(use this option only if you can't use the 10.x.x.x class).

Default: 0

=back

=head2 INTERNET CONNECTION

All these Internet options requires B<ntk_restricted_mode> set to 1.

=over

=item B<internet_connection> = I<bool>

When set to 1, it specifies that this computer has an active Internet
connection. Note that B<ntkd> will overwrite any default route if this
option is set to 0 and the shared Internet connections of other nodes are
used.

Default: 0

=item B<internet_gateway> = I<IP:interface>

It specifies the default gateway used by I<localhost> to reach the Internet.
This option is necessary only if you don't have the default route set when you
run NetsukukuD (i.e. you haven't connected yet).
If this option isn't specified, B<ntkd> will automatically retrieve the
default Internet gateway from the routing table.
Example: 
	internet_gateway = 192.168.1.1:eth0

Default: (null)

=item B<internet_download_rate> = I<Kb>

This option is required if the B<internet_connection> option has been set to
1. It must be set to the download rate of the Internet connection in
KiloBytes. Example:

	internet_download_rate = 640

Default: (null)

=item B<internet_upload_rate> = I<Kb>

This option is required if the B<internet_connection> option has been set to
1. It must be set to the upload rate of the Internet connection in
KiloBytes. Example:

	internet_upload_rate = 30

Default: (null)

=item B<internet_ping_hosts> = I<host1:host2:host3:...>

Specifies a list of Internet hostnames which B<ntkd> will ping periodically to
verify the status of the Internet connection. If all the hosts specified
aren't reachable, it will assume that the Internet connection isn't available
anymore. When one them becoms pingable, B<ntkd> will enable again the
Internet Gateway Search. Example:

	internet_ping_hosts = google.com:cisco.com:sourceforge.net:dyne.org

This option hasn't a default value, it must be specified in the
B<netsukuku.conf> file.

=item B<share_internet> = I<bool>

When set to 1, B<ntkd> shares the Internet connection among all the other
Netsukuku nodes.

Default: 1

=item B<shape_internet> = I<bool>

Specifies if B<ntkd> will execute the F</etc/netsukuku/tc_shaper.sh> script to
activate the traffic shaping of the Internet connection.

Default: 0

=item B<use_shared_internet> = I<bool>

Specifies if B<ntkd> will load balance the Internet traffic of this host using
the Inet connections shared by the Netsukuku nodes.
When set to 0, localhost (this machine) uses only its local Internet
connection (if any).

Default: 1

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


=head1 CONTACTS

Subcrive to the netsukuku mailing to get help, be updated on the latest news
and discuss on its development.

To subscribe to the list, send a message to:
    L<netsukuku-subscribe@lists.dyne.org>
   
We live night and day in IRC, come to see us in:
#netsukuku 
on the FreeNode irc server (irc.freenode.org).

=head1 AUTHORS

Main authors and maintainers:

Andrea Lo Pumo aka AlpT <alpt@freaknet.org>

Main contributors:

Andrea Leofreddi <andrea.leofreddi@gmail.com>, Katolaz <katolaz@freaknet.org>,
Federico Tomassini <effetom@gmail.com>

For a complete list read the AUTHORS file or visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/?p=Contacts>

=head1 SEE ALSO

For more information about Netsukuku visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org>

ntkd(8), ntk-wifi(8), andna(8), iproute2(8), route(8)

#
### ANDNA
#


 To disable the start of the ANDNA daemon at the launch of ntkd, set
 this option to 1. Note that when the ANDNA daemon is disabled, the andna
 system will not work at all, so it will be impossible to resolve, register
 or update hostnames.

disable_andna		= 0


 When NetsukukuD starts it modifies /etc/resolv.conf writing in the first
 line "nameserver 127.0.0.1". The old /etc/resolv.conf is copied in
 /etc/resolv.conf.bak. When the daemon is closed /etc/resolv.conf is
 restored. If you want to disable this set disable_resolvconf to 1.
 If it is disabled you won't be able to resolve hostnames!

disable_resolvconf	= 0


#
### Limits
#


 How many connection the netsukuku daemons can simultaneusly handle.

ntk_max_connections		= 512

 How many simultaneusly connections to the daemons from a single host are
 allowed.
ntk_max_accepts_per_host	= 16

 The wait time necessary for a host to reconnect to the daemons after all the
 ntk_max_accepts_per_host were used.

max_accepts_per_host_time	= 4	#in seconds


#
### Files
#


 ntkd will save its process id in this file

pid_file 		= /var/run/ntkd.pid

 
 The paths of the Netsukuku maps saved by the daemon

ntk_ext_map_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/ext_map_file
ntk_int_map_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/int_map_file
ntk_bnode_map_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/bnode_map_file


 The hostnames that will be registered in ANDNA are kept, one per line, in
 this file.

andna_hnames_file	= /etc/netsukuku/andna_hostnames


 The snsd_nodes_file keeps the list of the SNSD records which will be
 register in ANDNA.

snsd_nodes_file	= /etc/netsukuku/snsd_nodes


 Caches used by the ANDNA daemon

andna_cache_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/andna_cache
andna_lclkey_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_keyring
andna_lcl_file		= /usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_cache
andna_rhc_file		= /usr/share/netsukuku/andna_rh_cache
andna_counter_c_file	= /usr/share/netsukuku/andna_counter_cache


 The script launched by NetsukukuD to share the Internet connection

ip_masquerade_script	= /etc/netsukuku/ip_masquerade.sh


 The script launched by NetsukukuD to shape the Internet connection

tc_shaper_script	= /etc/netsukuku/tc_shaper.sh
